good
performance
okay great
uh we're recording now perfect
hello everyone uh welcome to the Q a
session with Professor David Deutsch was
by the Oxford Quantum Information
Society
we are a student group at Oxford
organizing events about Quantum
information sciences and Quantum
Computing actually the the first such
group founded a few years ago
uh today we have like from society niso
to Simone Amin Jan and Benji joining us
I think Maria is also here she was the
president two years ago or three years
ago and one of the founders of the
society I'm Matt I'm a physics D field
student at Oxford and the president of
the society
um I must mention that this session is
personally important for me doing my
freshman year at Stanford I was taking a
philosophy of physics class and I was
exposed to a quote by Professor Deutsche
where quantum computers were given as an
argument to the Multiverse
I learned that factorizing large prime
numbers efficiently could be done on
quantum computers as shown by Peter
Shore and uh to quote Professor Deutsch
these large composite numbers
yes yes
um thanks
so so to quote Professor Deutsche from
from the fabric of reality so if the
visible Universe were the extent of
physical reality physical reality would
not even remotely contain the resources
required to factorize such a large
number
who did factorize it then how and where
was the competition performed
after this non-intuitive and null
description I got extremely interested
in Quantum Computing all right this
that's what what it seemed unintuitive
at the time and now six years later I'm
I'm doing a PhD on it we are extremely
lucky to have Professor Deutsche joining
us today it will not be an exaggeration
to say that Professor Deutsche is one of
the pioneers of quantum Computing he
defined Universal Quantum Computing and
discovered the first formal algorithm
that showed quantum computers can be
efficient and more efficient than
classical ones demonstrating that
demonstrating what we now refer to as
Quantum advantage
and Professor Deutsche is currently a
visiting Professor here at Oxford
today we'll have the chance to ask him
some questions we prepared some
questions including the ones you sent us
while signing up
but you can in fact you're encouraged to
ask questions as we go along uh just use
the hand raised feature on Zoom when you
have something to ask
and if we don't like see you for some
reason please feel free to shout out we
we want this to be a free open for all
this discussion
actually we're aiming for this to be as
interactive as possible so it would be
nice if you could turn on your cameras
uh FYI the meeting is being recorded So
if you we might do some edits before
publishing if you have some problems
just email us message us
and the questions we prepared mostly
revolve around Professor Deutsch's book
The the fabric of reality we divided the
questions into the four strands of
reality discussed in the book
computation
quantum physics
Evolution and I don't know if you can
see what epistemology
okay I guess we can get started with
computation and uh Professor Deutsche
asked me to address him as David so I'm
gonna do that
um David you proved Universal Quantum
Computing under quantum physics
extending on Ellen turing's Universal
Computing principle and now quantum
computers are being built today
what do they tell us about Multiverse
interpretation of quantum physics
um I think the
computers that are being built
are from the point of view of telling us
about the Multiverse interpretation
they are
just a matter of psychological impact
the real
implication for the Multiverse
was already there when
when people first described single
particle
um single Photon interference
and then especially when
um
people
um analyzed entanglement in those terms
and then especially when the theory of
the universal quantum computer came
along
uh and then there was also my thought
experiment which which involves a
um artificial general intelligence
running on a quantum computer
um
uh and and performing an experiment
um to actually test the many Universal
interpretation or ever Everett and
quantum mechanics as I prefer to call it
um so and those were all Theory
so
um
well I suppose
the single single Photon interference
wasn't just Theory but everything else
was pure Theory
and when we have a working Universal
quantum computer
as a matter of logic
the case for everettian quantum theory
was already made and was already
unanswerable before
but uh it it is just that much more
cognitive dissonance for people to cope
with if they insist on denying it
okay I'm gonna go on with hard questions
if no one is raising their hands
and feel free to shout out again if if
that's fine with you
um we actually had a lot of questions
come up uh about your inspiration for
the diet the Deutsche algorithm and the
Deutsche Joe's algorithm can you briefly
talk about the algorithm itself and
maybe your inspiration for it
uh yes well
um
uh the first algorithm that I proposed
in my first paper on on universal
quantum computer
was in fact not the one that's called
the Deutsche algorithm today it was it
was much uh we had much less power
so I I I've really
usurped somebody's somebody else
invented a thing called the Deutsche
algorithm or probably several people
simultaneously
but then the Deutsche shows algorithm
was uh invented basically by Joseph
uh he came to see me and and said he
wants to talk about Quantum algorithms
and
um he he showed me uh how you could
uh
execute something that in the end turned
out to be What's called the shows or
algorithm
and uh when he was halfway through his
explanation I said uh wait a minute that
that violates
the theorem uh that I proved in my first
paper
that uh quantum
uh Quantum parallelism
can't increase the uh average speed
of computing anything but can only
increase the speed the fastest speed
and so he just casually said oh yeah
that was wrong
so oh my theorem was wrong right good
and and the reason it was wrong is that
I had uh what I called Quantum
parallelism in that first paper was a
particular form of quantum parallelism
which was the first one I thought of
and which I described in that paper but
in fact there are many other forms and
they are more powerful and in fact
exponentially more powerful
so
um we ended up writing the paper about
that and uh that that was um algorithm
uh it um one way it it uh is
conceptually an improvement on my
original algorithms was that it involved
directly manipulating the phase
and
um manipulating the phase is obviously a
more direct way of getting to
interference which is the basis of the
power of of such algorithms some people
say
it's entanglement but it's the same
thing really
um because you adjust the phase
somewhere and you also adjust it
somewhere else in the Schrodinger
picture very misleading but there you
are that's the Schrodinger picture for
you
and uh you mentioned the entanglement
and we had a question about that as well
how is entanglement phenomena explained
without any signal passing between two
entangled pair of particles
ah but it does pass
um the thing is in order to test
entanglement or to demonstrate any
entanglement phenomenon
you need to do
um
experiments on one locality depending on
the results of experiments in another
locality
and how did the information get from and
you you could so how did information get
from one to the other well the answer is
it gets there in the
um
uh inside the classical qubits that one
sends from one side to the other to
determine what experiment to do
um that that uh that shows
that
perfectly classical bits
or bits which to all local experiments
look perfectly classical actually
contain
Quantum information inside them which is
stable to decoherence because it's
stable to do coherence you can't measure
it but you can use it to convey the
quantum information from one system to
another and then and only then
can you detect the
um entanglement phenomenon
and I'm assuming that's a classical
signal uh obeying the limits of the
speed of light yes although the the
calling it a classical signal kind of
kind of begs the question or or
makes the
um makes the explanation more obscure
than it needs to be the term classical
signal or classical information
is ambiguous it can either mean
a
signal expressed in classical bits Each
of which can be zero or one and that is
not a physical thing there is no such
thing in nature
or it can mean a Quantum system which
all systems in reality are
which in which the information is
decoherent
but uh
it it
can be shown and and Hayden and I showed
in a in a paper that the
um that such quote classical
systems can contain hidden Quantum
information
and by by Hayden I assume you meant
Patrick Adam yes
um
I guess we we moved into the the realm
of
oh I I might have a very naive follow-up
on that
so when you talk about the classical
bits having some hidden Quantum
information does that have anything to
do with the famous hidden variables
Theory or no no it's the opposite uh
really uh
um we called it locally inaccessible
information that is it's information
that cannot be accessed by a local
measurement on the bit that travels from
A to B
um uh but it can be accessed by by doing
an experiment that involves both A and B
one after the other
so the information is there it just
can't be accessed by a by an experiment
purely on the traveling bit
great thanks for the question once
um
I guess we moved into the realm of
quantum physics and uh I mean I I guess
you were arguing that the four strands
are linked so that that is natural
um
could you give an overview of the
experiments that provide the best
evidence for parallel universes in other
words what should an experimentalist
know about any worlds this actually came
from an experimentalist in the
department so
right well uh it depends so any
experiment
um that provides evidence
one of the other strands namely the
epistemology strand
tells us that
um evidence is meaningless unless there
are at least two theories predicting
different things about the evidence
otherwise
um uh what one can always reinterpret if
one only has one explanatory Theory one
can always reinterpret any result as
conforming to that theory if only by
saying it was an experimental error or a
fraud or or something we don't yet
understand or or whatever
um so
um
which
experiment is most convincing depends on
which rival Theory
you have in mind as being the one you
would jump to if the quantum if the
everettian quantum theory predictions
were refuted
so uh the the the
um the basic the basic experiment is as
I said before is just any interference
experiment and the the more complex the
um
the variable that's involved in the
interference the more convincing the
experiment is so that's why people did
experiments with interfering neutrons
and then with interfering molecules and
interfering Buckyballs and uh they can
keep trying to make viruses to interfere
and so on and eventually we'll have as
in my thought experiment we will have
interfering
AGI programs
and that will that will rule out then
then one can actually perform uh the
vignus friend Paradox in real life
and show that that vigna was wrong and
that what actually happens is is that
the
um the AGI
can recall evidence of itself having had
more than one
um
experience simultaneously
that that I think would would if it
could be done eventually
would be
um the ultimate answer but but really it
is as I keep saying and I hope nobody's
offended by this but I I think it is it
has been incoherent to deny
um
to to
insist that there is only one universe
uh ever since
um 1957 when Everett wrote his his uh
his paper describing his so-called
interpretation it's not interpretation
it's a theory and the theory that it is
is quantum theory
oh I I should say uh so as I said it
depends on what alternative Theory you
have in mind if you have in mind the the
bone interpretation
um that is an interesting case because
as I has as I've often said the the bone
into or the de broy bone interpretation
or the pilot wave interpretation
is uh the many worst interpretation
in in the state of chronic denial
um because the
um the wave function in that theory has
got unoccupied grooves where the the
representative particle doesn't travel
and yet those grooves
affect the particle
so some of those grooves are human
shaped grooves in which there are there
are thought-shaped events and those
thoughts affect other thoughts and so
it's it's really just a matter of
terminology to deny that those thoughts
are the thoughts of real people
we we have just we if we could do such
an experiment uh explicitly we would
have exactly as much evidence of the
people in the other universes
as we have of people in our universe
um and
um in both cases that is more evidence
than we have of the existence of
dinosaurs in the past
in both cases we we cannot experience
them directly
but we can experience evidence that is
inexplicable without postulating that
they exist
I see I see
um I guess mashing bombing mechanics
builds up to our next question oh we
have a question from Mo yeah hello
um it's an honor to speak here
um I was wondering um so I read about
the moral implications of the many words
theorem I was just wondering if you had
any uh any thoughts on that
yes I think the only moral implication
of it that's different from
uh what morality was before and knew
about it
is that
one ought to Advocate it
then it is morally wrong
to insist that it's false
um sorry I meant I meant more that
um so do we have to stop worrying about
all these other possibilities yes no so
I'm saying that we we don't have to
worry about those because
um it's interesting I I I'm often asked
that question but in in two different
forms one one form is is saying well
since you know that every time you drive
out in your car you will necessarily run
someone over in some universe so
shouldn't you be more reluctant to drive
a car and and the other is well when
whenever you run someone over they
always survive in some universe so maybe
you should be a bit less worry a bit
less so I think the uh quantum theory of
probability and decisions
which comes out of the uh Everett
everettian quantum theory
tells us that precisely that well at
least when we're doing decoherent things
so it wouldn't necessarily hold during
my thought experiment but when we're
doing decoherent things we should attend
to probabilities exactly as if
uh the outcomes were determined by
probability with the born rule
so uh it should not make us more
reluctant or less reluctant to drive a
car
um
what happens when we are fully uploaded
into quantum computers and then our
thinking sorry we're thinking coherent
Quantum coherent thoughts
no one knows yet I think uh certainly I
don't
got to be an interesting future thank
you
you have a question from babak
yes thank you and hi David hi um I was
wondering how you would explain Quant
the quantum Xeno effects or Paradox
however you want to call it
um within the abortion quantum theory
which
yes so uh do you mean the
actual Xeno effect or do you mean the El
Azure vitamin bomb phenomenon oh no so I
mean the so the effect being you know or
the watch part effect yeah yeah yeah
um well
that's the case where where one is
um
where one is
again it it's um
it's another experiment that confirms
the everettian quantum theory what one
is doing is one makes a one makes a
measurement which is overwhelmingly
likely to have the answer a and has a
very low probability of having the
answer be
then one does it again then one does it
again and so on and classically the
probability of getting a b would would
go up
actually Quantum mechanically as well
but you can you can
um arrange but but because
um
uh Quantum probabilities add up in a
different way from classical ones you
can arrange so that so that in the limit
B will never happen
will happen within with an arbitrarily
small probability so that that is simply
again I think that's better understood
in the
uh ever in everettian quantum theory
because
um
uh you are simply putting yourself in a
larger and larger fraction of the
universes
thank you
great thanks uh Faye
um
I'm doing Quantum some abandonment and
someday someday I'll explain the
Multiverse and the quantum computation
speed up to my friends who are doing us
and they take a very
um different new content and the other
question that consumes it a lot the
startup would it be not really still
resources from other Universe to speed
up the operation we have at this
universe so This concerns me is it
health collaboration between universes
to make the computation faster or it's
just a complication between different
universes and this perhaps correlates
with your uh conservation laws between
Universe I noticed that there is a
conservation of knowledge in your book I
thought could these two questions
related but I'm not sure
yeah well uh so I think this
conservation of knowledge and that kind
of thing happens
where there's not only quantum theory
but close time-like lines as well so
just setting that aside for the moment
uh Quantum computation never involves
stealing anything from other
universities it's always a collaboration
but not only a collaboration it's a
collaboration
between different versions of the same
people that started the
um computation so somebody programs the
computation
and that programming happens in a
certain range of universes then as the
quantum computation proceeds that that
range of of of universes which were
initially identical with everybody
putting in the same program and and
wanting the same
answer wanting the same number
factorized or whatever and then as the
um computation goes on
this range of identical universes
differentiates itself into a vast vast
number
of different universes all performing a
different computation and then they are
recombined but not all with the same
phase
so in such a way that they all well in
some you know in sorry for some
algorithms it's not all it's just most
but but let's say in in a simple case
they all end up with the answer
so uh they There's No Stealing going on
they they have entirely but not only are
they collaborating but they're
collaborating on the same problem
thanks um
ante
as a question
uh hi
um recently in your conversation with
Robin Hansen you said that the problem
of Hawaii uh risk and frequencies can be
approximated by probabilities it's an
unsolved problem yeah and I was just
wondering why how come the quantum
theory
uh doesn't solve that problem or why
isn't it that probability abilities are
just frequencies in the Multiverse yeah
they're a very important question it's
because
um when you
um when you're betting on on roulette or
something like that which show we can be
approximated as a as a Quantum process
what you mean by the by using
probabilities is is that you'll get a
different answer in different universes
but when you bet on let's say one
company over another
you're not you're not betting that that
the company that like
suppose you have
um you can bet on two companies and and
you're wondering which one of them is
going to make more profit than the other
or give a higher dividend than the other
or whatever
it's not that you're expecting the
universe is to divide equally
supposing its risk is 50 50. you're an
awesome uh you're you're saying that you
don't know how they're going to divide
in fact you might be fully of the
opinion that the Universe universes
aren't going to divide very much with
respect to which company uh is better
that one of them is unequivocally better
but you do not know
which it is and that ignorance is
somehow translatable into a probability
but that
um violates the theory of probability
that deriving knowledge including
knowledge of probabilities from
ignorance is a cardinal mistake in
probability Theory so it's not that it
must be that there is some way of
dealing with knowledge
which gets you to a say a rational
decision and then you can work backwards
and say well because that's the rational
decision the implicit probability must
have been so and so
by the way there are other cases where
using probability and using classical
decision Theory at all is is is a
mistake so this equivalence between
um
between uh
decision making in the uh where decision
making under real ignorance and decision
making under probability
um
doesn't hold and uh really the only
thing you can say is I don't know and
you have to resort to other
objectives such as minimizing your
maximum loss or maximizing your minimum
gain or or whatever or just to keep out
of it if you can
so I I don't know as I say it's an
unsolved problem
did I understand your question correctly
I mean you said why isn't it the same
well
uh for probability to to make sense
according to Quantum Theory it must be
because things are distributed in a
certain way in the Multiverse
it cannot possibly work when
it isn't distributed much in the
Multiverse but you just don't know
yes I think you understood it correctly
okay well tell me if you have the answer
okay
we have another question if there's no
follow-up on that from Jan who's part of
our society
hey David thanks so much for um
you're in the room I guess
okay
um yeah so we have a viewing party uh
I'm not in the same room so that we
don't have the code yeah okay here we go
I'll ask you thanks so much for taking
time so on the topic of Birmingham
mechanics I was just introduced so so if
we if you look at like modern versions
of vermium mechanics there's usually for
gomians there's these two important
different Frameworks there's a a
configuration space in which the wave
function evolves and there's also a
physical space of particles in which
particles evolve and then there's for
example interpretations where uh one
says that the um the evolution of the
wave function is what guides the
evolution of particles and
there's not really well I guess my main
question is
um for a lot of bullions this is the way
they think about the world that sort of
we have to model things as particles and
therefore we have to find out how
particles evolve and I was just
wondering how you think about the world
around you in sort of the Paradigm of of
many worlds in the Multiverse and you
think along the lines of uh Wallace and
sort of Daniel Dennis uh functionalist
interpretation
um and sort of what you have to say to
this sort of Permian interpretation that
you have these two conflicting
Frameworks of or not conflicting two
related Frameworks well I'm not quite
sure what you mean by two conflicting
Frameworks because yeah
um I thought bow means they are
compatible in fact necessarily uh
complementary or whatever but but anyway
uh the thing you have to ask yourself if
you are a Birmingham is is the pilot
wave real
is it a real feature of of the universe
or is it not is is only the
representative particle or whatever you
call it is only that real
if the representative particle is the
only real thing which I think is the
psychological motivation behind
Birmingham mechanics
then you have to uh
concede
that it is driven Along by something
that isn't real
it's driven Along by pure mathematics or
something
whereas if you concede that therefore
the wave function must be real the pilot
wave or whatever you call it
then you must concede that the pilot
wave contains people-shaped unoccupied
grooves where the particle where the
particle is not but where
um
people are having conversations people
people in the unoccupied groups
um some of them believe birming
mechanics some of them think it's
rubbish uh you know the the full panoply
of things that happen in the in the
world represented by the particle
also happen
in all the other grooves
and
um
denying that they exist is is logically
the same as denying that the dinosaurs
existed or denying that Australia exists
or denying that anyone beyond your
computer screen exists
um now in contrast I don't think there's
much of a question to answer in the case
of a variety and quantum mechanics
because at least in D coherent
everettium quantum mechanics
the ontology of the world is the same as
it was classically
if if we think of a coherent observers
and that kind of thing then that breaks
down and we may need new a new
conceptual framework and new language
and so on but but for everyday life
there's nothing new to to uh understand
um just today I tweeted
um
a
um lecture given by Harvey brown
um which uh who in in I think is a is a
has said the last word on this issue in
my view uh where he describes some of
the philosophical
uh knots one has to pull oneself through
uh if one is to defend the birming
interpretation
as for functionalism and physicalism I
think that's that's uh an unrelated
issue
those are issues of the metaphysics of
thinking and of what a person is and so
on which which are questions orthogonal
to
um well they're orthogonal to
quantum theory to everettian Quantum
Theory now of course if you make up a
theory in which the mind has a special
place then the two issues Collide but in
everetting uh quantum theory they
precisely don't
I think we have a follow-up question
from Jamal
good hello thank you for the opportunity
of being in this question answer session
um I my question refers to the the book
uh the science and can and cannot that
one of your grad student so I created uh
oh as when I was reading that book
yes when I was reading that book I came
across uh how you were trying to use
some
instances of set theory and information
Theory to try to to try to give more
uh breadth to Constructor Theory and I
my question in regards uh would the
halting problem in girdles and
completely serum also be some of the
things that would uh also be added to
Constructor Theory when you add set
theory
uh no they wouldn't or at least we don't
expect them to be added because
um those issues only arise for infinite
sets
and Constructor Theory regards although
the universe may be infinite it regards
physical systems as always finite it
only makes
statements about finite systems so they
can be arbitrarily large but still
finite
so
um it it the the therefore constructive
theory does not make statements about
the universe as a whole
the universe is not what we call a
substrate it's not something that a
Constructor can act on
so you can
think of the universe as being an
emergent property of finite object of
many finite objects
but uh you can't think of it as a a
first-class object within
um within constructive theory
um by the way I should say that
Constructor theory is a work in progress
um I don't think
I mean some people disagree with me but
I I don't think it would be the right
thing to do to First
make a rigorous
um
uh uh formalism
for Constructor Theory and then work out
what it means
um of course it might be that that's the
way one has to go but but I I don't
think that that's that's a good idea if
one can possibly avoid it we need to
work out what it means first
and then think of a mathematical
framework that suitably expresses what
it means
I mean we we have a mathematical
framework that's good enough to be going
on with
I guess
um yeah we will be talking about like
creation of theories so maybe we should
ask you one one final question on
quantum physics and as as I said before
they're they're all interlinked so we we
can come back to it but
uh maybe let's talk about time a bit in
the fabric of reality you state that the
flow of time is not real it's an
illusion
so why can't it's it's not an illusion
and it's not real and it's not an
illusion it's a mistake it's a mistake
okay yes
um but then why can't we access past
snapshots of the of the universe whereas
it feels like we are flowing towards the
future snapshots
right
um
what we can access
is a question of which physical
processes are available under the laws
of physics and which aren't
there are plenty of
um physical processes like uh
um
obtaining a sample of the center of the
Sun or seeing the center of the Sun or
seeing a neutroprino or whatever which
the laws of physics happen to not
provide the right kind of interactions
for us to be able to harness those
interactions to perceive those processes
and the same is true of
um most of the past
and the same is true of most of the
future though interestingly different
subsets of the past and the future that
we can know anything about and the the
uh I think that's a very
um there's they're a very powerful
insights to be gained there but so we
shouldn't be surprised when there's
something we don't know we shouldn't be
surprised when there's something that
the
uh laws of physics
forbid us from
experiencing
what we should be surprised if is if
there's something that the laws of
physics forbid us from understanding
uh I think that would be a very
Supernatural kind of world to live in
and I don't think we live in it
I see I see
um
okay
um I guess to tie the Multiverse to
Evolution uh we have a question
is fine-tuning necessary for
intelligence to explain we we've we
found ourselves in in these laws of
physics because we could only exist in
these laws of physics
would there be a way for the lows to be
different but intelligence to exist and
by intelligence we mean someone or
something who understands the laws that
govern it
should we call that life
or are laws necessary for your
description of life
oh that last question seems to be at
odds with all the rest of the questions
are laws necessary well laws I can only
understand the term laws
in the context of understanding
something we understand something via
laws and in that if that's what you mean
by laws then yes they are necessary but
I think you may have meant our
particular laws necessary like like via
the anthropic principle uh I I think the
anthropic principle is is kind of
obviously true
but what it tells us I think is very
very limited
um uh I I actually discussed this uh
quite a bit in my other book the
beginning of infinity
um where I give an argument due to
Dennis Sharma
that that shows that that
um
if if the
if there are many different kinds of
laws instantiated in reality and the
only reason we see the ones that we do
are that it it the only reason is that
uh
there's no one in the other ones there
to ask the question
then the most likely thing is that we
are only just
in such a universe
um I think this argument was also made
in a slightly different way by Richard
Feynman but but I I I heard what I think
is a a devastatingly convincing form
from Dennis Sharma
um
and and so if if the universe is only
just
um
only just fine-tuned
which by this argument it must be then
we should expect
at any nanosecond to be wiped out
because we would be surrounded by by uh
hot stuff that will kill us in the next
nanosecond and so what I've just said
proves that isn't so in a certain sense
we're still alive
do we have any follow-up on that
yes we do Andrew Salto
sorry you're muted
can you hear me now
I've put the question in there and then
what is wrong with the probability as a
measure of the number of Worlds and
which one is defined
oh well the the uh this is an old
um
you know truism in probability Theory
um probabilities are only equal to
frequencies
if the
um things in question are equally likely
so probability is frequency over things
that are equally likely what is equally
likely mean it means they have the same
probability what does probability mean
and so on so that would lead to an
infinite regress or to circularity or
whatever
and uh it's worse than that in the case
of like Multiverse type reasoning
because you can easily make a model
of a Multiverse that doesn't obey
quantum mechanics
where the frequencies are obviously not
probabilities
um so somewhere somewhere I've uh I
wrote an example of this where you you
have there are there are a lot of copies
of you all in in identical prison cells
and you are also identical you know this
is this is a non-quantum uh thought
experiment and then
um uh half of you do one thing and half
of you do another and then the the
second group half of them does one thing
and half of them does another and then
by probability that the the first group
would have probability half the second
group have probability one quarter third
group has probability or one quarter but
you can achieve the same physical effect
by dividing
into three in which case they should all
have probability one third
so uh that's a world in which
probability doesn't make sense the fact
that probability does make sense in our
world is in my view
an amazing property of quantum theory we
had to work hard to prove that property
and if you change quantum theory just
slightly it no longer has that property
thank you very much
thanks David
um I guess we can still talk about
Evolution
um to change topics a bit
um
a meme as described in your book is a
theory or joke that survives through
iterations
if I'm not mistaken well it's any idea
that that can be replicated yes
I guess it's a container for knowledge
yes yes so if if it if it can be
replicated to more than random degree
then it must contain it can be said to
contain knowledge
now now uh memes are a widespread
internet phenomenon by the way
what I just said
uh is and what you said is true of genes
as well it's true of any replicator you
guessed the question my down the
question is our memes are related to
genes
so
um memes and genes are both replicators
so in that sense the theory of
replicators applies to both of them and
there are Illuminating
um
properties of both that both share which
where each of them can tell us something
about the other but
memes and genes
uh have a radically different
replication mechanism
again this is in my second book uh the
beginning of infinity which you should
all buy
um the uh genes
when they replicate they are copied
blindly
so the only
um bottleneck to their to their
exponential growth until they they cover
the entire universe the only bottleneck
is their actual effect on their holders
whether they increase or decrease the
chance that that Holder will
um Will Survive
in with uh
uh will survive in time to replicate the
meme so the the gene sorry
but a meme has got two bottlenecks
first it must
um pass the test of being
understood and replicated into the mind
of a new holder and then when the holder
then executes it it must do something
which which uh like the gene so that
that second bottleneck is the equivalent
of the gene the first bottleneck has no
analog in genes
and that makes the natural history of
memes
radically different from that of genes
it means that these two kinds of memes
that they have different replication
strategies uh neither of them has the
same reputation strategy as a dean there
is there is no way of
there is no way for a meme
to replicate Itself by blind copying
humans are incapable of blind copying
anyway but even if you try to engrave
your Your Meme on on a stone Obelisk
that Obelisk will wear away unless
somebody tends to it
and uh that is not true of genes they
can they can survive for billions of
years and because they are
um maintained by a blind error
correction process
whereas a human memes have to be
maintained by humans actually going out
of their way to maintain them in every
generation that's that's another
difference genes need not be enacted in
every generation
uh take you know if you don't if you
don't either there's an example I give
if you don't break your arm
uh you will still pass the genes for
repairing broken arms onto your children
but if you don't if you don't uh enact
your religion
then your children will never hear of it
see so that that first bottleneck is the
difference between
a live replication and
non-living replication whereas a meme or
your book is a container for knowledge
it replicates as a Printing House print
copied it and I I acquired some
knowledge to it but without me it would
not be able to replicate the knowledge
would go away or without the readers
yes without the re and the just printing
it is blind replication but really
that's that's not if we look at
Generations then if humans don't read
the book then almost all almost all
printed material will never be read
again nor enacted
okay
we we have a question from Arjun
yes uh it's a pleasure to be asking a
question uh on the I so since we're on
the concept of memes uh I think what you
write in the beginning of infinity which
I have right here is uh in chapter 15
it's like
extremely profound what do you come by
with the idea of memes and the effects
and implications of society uh and you
write a little about an explicit uh
being explicit component of memes and
ideas which I thought was very
interesting but could you stand on that
a little since uh you're right in fact
all ideas have some inexplicit content
since even a knowledge of the meanings
of the world of words is a largely
inexplicably in our minds uh but just to
sort of unpack that a little maybe I'd
love to hear you think of that yeah uh
well
um
so first of all
the way that it couldn't be
is that
um all knowledge is explicit that that
couldn't happen because if knowledge all
knowledge were explicit then the meaning
of words let's say I I use a word like
like
um Castle
um and somebody doesn't know what a
castle is they would have to look in a
dictionary
and then in that dictionary a castle
will be will be defined as a type of
building which has a following
properties Etc but in order to uh if the
person doesn't know what building is or
what a type is then they have to look up
the type and it's obvious
uh by accounting argument that that a
dictionary cannot possibly Define even
in that
straightforward sense cannot possibly
Define every word in it
because the the the the
there would have to be a route to every
um to every definition and that route
would itself be undefined
so
um with how is it that inexplicit
knowledge gets around that well in
explicit knowledge doesn't have
definitions and in fact as Carl popper
says
definitions are highly overrated they're
they're nearly always useless
um
um we have
um knowledge
encoded in language but not as
definitions they're included encoded as
ideas expressed in language
and
um the way children learn language
is by guessing what words and
grammatical structures mean and they
they they when they guess wrong they
correct their guess
and uh when they guess right they use
the word and then perhaps correct it
again nobody no two people end up with
the same meanings of all the words we
Loosely speaking we say that everybody
who speaks English can understand each
other but that is not true as soon as
you get into any kind of detailed
discussion or anything you find that
people have a different idea of what it
means like to exist or what it means to
be true or just basic things like that
people have radically different
intuitive ideas about
which if they are naive they think that
everyone else has them too and are just
being obtuse
so I don't know if that answers your
question I mean that that's I I've said
like what can't happen and what does
happen but yes it does help thanks
okay
um we have another question also how are
we doing on time David do you think we
could go on a bit more yeah yeah up to
you okay maybe like 30 more minutes I
guess then go finish up maybe less uh we
have a question from babak
hi thanks uh hi again so
um we have physical theories of what we
understand now as physical theories of
information starting with thermodynamics
and uh second law of Thermodynamics
especially but it it seems to me that we
are missing something there as a
physical theory of knowledge and how
that might have a bearing on all of this
um
do you have any thoughts on that to
share
yeah well uh first of all we already do
have uh some quite deep knowledge about
knowledge
um namely uh epistemology which of which
the best
that I know of is Carl Poppa's
um epistemology
it obviously is insufficient since if it
were if if it could tell us everything
about knowledge and how it works and so
we would be able to use it to make an
AGI
and
um I I'm
I take it as axiomatic if you like that
um until we can make an AGI we we there
is a huge gap in our understanding of
knowledge
now as a separate matter I am kind of
hoping that constructive theory
um will tell us something about
knowledge uh since knowledge is an
abstract Constructor
and that can't be an irrelevant fact
uh so I I think there will be a
um a constructive theory of knowledge
eventually
which may or may not improve on purpose
theory of knowledge
but even if it does improve on it
I'm afraid I still think it won't be the
full answer well when I say the full
answer I mean it won't solve the
problems that we have now nothing is
ever a full answer in the sense of
solving all future problems but
um
I think the the various
issues about knowledge
uh like the question of identity and the
question of qualia and and so on
knowledge Consciousness uh Free Will and
and so on though those we have partial
knowledge of those uh especially
knowledge of
what is a bad theory about them
um but we don't have
um an actual explanatory theory of them
and
um
well um so we don't know that that's
another it's a whole other vast area
that we don't know about
is I think it's a vast area maybe
somebody will come up with a single
equation that just solves it
wouldn't that be nice yeah
cool cool uh we have a question from
Charles
yes hi David oh hi Charles
um yeah my question is uh about the time
and the Multiverse so I guess I'm going
back a bit
um I wonder how can the multiversal
picture of time accommodate the idea of
a new of an open Future
um if like in classical space time
determinism ends up fixing the
Multiverse and by open here I refer
either to People's Choice or to
knowledge creation I guess
so uh
the
the open universe
is
um is not oh is not intended to be open
in the sense that there's indeterminism
in fact determinism does not help in any
way
to make the universe open in the sense
we want it to be open in fact if
anything it makes it worse
that it makes the problem uh worse
we have to the the the problems though
Arise at a different level from the
level of microscopic physics
they arise at the level of of
understanding knowledge again when I say
that
when I say that I have freely chosen to
do something I mean
that I have created or in the in the
process of deciding it and I I don't
mean simply a choice like whether I
should have strawberry or butterscotch
ice cream where it doesn't really matter
much to me I'm talking about decisions
where I had to think about it and where
I am a different person as it were after
having thought of it in those cases
I have created something new I have
brought something new into the world
namely the knowledge
that I then use to guide my my choice
so
um
the universe can be open to that or not
that's that's the sense in which popper
used the word open in the sense of the
open society and its enemies no Society
is totally closed no society that we
know of is totally open but still there
is a vast and important difference
between societies that are basically
open or which at least strive to be
and societies which are basically closed
or at least strive to be
and that's the sense in which it is
important for a society to be open
and I think exactly the same is true
within one person
that's that's what we mean by being open
to ideas or it's what we mean by having
had a new idea you know I could say I
had a new idea yesterday about so-and-so
and somebody somebody you know a a rabid
determinist would say no that idea was
already there at the Big Bang
um
but in a sense it was
and in a sense it clearly wasn't
so we have to basically in order to
think of openness we have to
kind of put back in the drawer all the
framework of
Laws of Motion initial State determinism
otherwise it might be just meaningless
and we're just gonna loop around yes
because uh we shouldn't be surprised
that the answer to the problem is at the
same level as the problem
the problem isn't about electrons
exactly yeah if you have a uh you know
if if you're worried about how your
theory of knowledge is compatible with
your theory of electrons
then that's kind of I don't know what
you call it the category error or
something that that's that's uh
um it's it's like it's like saying
um well the example one of the examples
I give in the beginning of infinity is
like if somebody says if you're watching
a Conjuring trick in in the theater and
the country does something that looks
impossible and you say to your friend
how the hell did he do that and the
friend says laws of physics
he hasn't he hasn't answered your
question and if he says oh the country
did it still hasn't answered answered
your question you want your problem was
at a different level from those two
levels it's at one level up
the the answer is something like
when it looked as though he was putting
the ball in the second cup he wasn't and
he then put it in the third cup that's
the beginning of a real answer
mm-hmm
and it's compatible with the first two
answers but the first two answers don't
answer the question
thank you yeah I see
hey thanks for the question Charles
um we have two more questions
so I guess we moved to the the strand of
uh epistemology now uh but let's see
where these questions come from uh Toby
hi Toby you have a race hello
um can you hear me
yes
um hello there David
um I have a question about decision
Theory and the error of time
um and this could be a bad conjecture
but I want to know whether observation
of time asymmetric increase of entropy
could fees appear as be a result of
Agents maximizing their rational
expectation values in a Time symmetric
World much the way you derive
probabilistic Bond rule from
non-probalistic many worlds so that
agents such as ourselves are playing
like a game as if we can make sense of
the world in terms of causation change
and predict in the future but where
those things have no intrinsic or by
that time symmetry has no intrinsic
existence of its own
um so I was wondering I wonder if if
there's been any work in this area or or
however it's a bad idea to think about
um there have been people who have tried
to link
uh what's it called the the entropic
arrow of time with the knowledge Arrow
of time
um
I'm I'm not very
um persuaded by that I I think there's
a lot more to knowledge in general and
to the knowledge era of time in
particular than just physics yeah as I
said before
um constructive theory May provide a a
closer link but it doesn't it hasn't yet
yeah I was what I mean if I mean the
sort of conjecture that I was that I had
was
I think one of my criticisms of it was
um that it it would mean if it was true
causation would be uh it would Mount to
some I think it amounts to some form of
subjectivity
um because it
the
I can imagine random agents saying the
Multiverse
um they're determined by laws of physics
and stuff like that but their actual
arrangement in time would be a fiction
or a story that
would be correlated between sets of
Agents but that would mean that the kind
of causal structure that I tend to think
would be objective would have to be
subjective so I thought that that was
probably one major problem with the the
idea uh
it I'm not sure I understand quite what
the idea you're putting forward is but
it it kept sounding to me that you were
mixing levels of explanation again
um the the question of what can
communicate with what is a question of
physics
um it has an answer in terms of laws of
physics and no higher level explanation
can add anything to that
yeah right
um if on the other hand you're talking
about like what things mean like when
you realize that
Napoleon isn't what you thought he was
then at the level of physics that
doesn't
um
uh change Napoleon but it does it may
change
how Napoleon affects the future from now
on
yeah yeah
thank you that's uh
to think about
um separating levels of explanation a
bit harder thank you
foreign
yeah we had a few more questions pop up
uh Owen
hi yeah thank you um so early when we
were talking about memes and genes you
called them containers of knowledge
um and I thought that sounded a little
bit strange to me because I would
consider more containers and of
information rather than knowledge um
maybe I'm just mistaken there but no no
uh that's a very important distinction
uh information so knowledge is a species
of information
but very little information
um is knowledge
because the vast majority of the
information that exists in the universe
does not have causal power
it doesn't have the power to replicate
itself is basically but it also doesn't
have the power to systematically cause
transformations in other systems
so you know you could take um
you could take a census of all the
grains of sand on all the coastlines in
in the world and that would be a vast
amount of information and almost none of
that information is involved in the
explanation of anything else
so whereas
um a much higher proportion of let's say
the information in the books in the
bodilian library
still you know not a hundred percent uh
probably not 10 but but vastly more than
in the grains of sand have the power to
cause things to happen
historians can go in there convinced of
one thing come out convinced of another
thing and then go and do things in the
world that have much greater mass and
momentum and uh generally
causal effect than the grains of sand
yeah okay I see um okay yeah and and
also earlier you were saying time is a
mistake and I'm not sure understood
exactly what what you mean by that when
we when we think that time flows like a
river or you know whatever metaphors
people say
that's obviously not true uh you know
the time time
at this moment
today
um is not going to flow anywhere it's
not going to flow into tomorrow it's not
going to flow to the day after it today
it will always stay at whatever today's
date is
and that doesn't change and nothing
about the sequence of time changes at
all again causation happens from one uh
time to another but the time itself
doesn't do that it's physical objects to
do that
okay but we still need uh time as sort
of a substrate to understand what
causation even means like we still need
the concept
well uh we need the concept of causation
but I don't think we need the concept
the time flows I I think yeah I see yeah
thank you
thanks
um Sam Sam
creepers
yes hi
um I had I'm not sure it's a very
serious question but you said
earlier is that uh memes replicate
by using basically two methods
and one of them is that you need to
enact
the meme during someone's lifetime for
them to remember it and then they can
pass it on
uh what if an AGI were born with like
pre-programmed knowledge of say the
Bible or something or of certain
religious Traditions so that you could
bypass that would that in any way change
uh meme evolution
I don't think it would by the way the
the I'm not sure which so
memes have two bottlenecks to pass
through unlike beans
there's also
in meme replication there are two
different kinds
so I think you might read first of those
things yeah yeah I mean I think you said
if you don't uh enact you know your
religion to your child then they won't
know about it but you uh if you break
you could never break your leg then they
will say the best you can do I think is
to engrave something
deeply on a diamond
but then you've got to put the diamond
somewhere where you can ensure that
somebody won't grind it up and use it
for industrial purposes or eventually so
that it won't it won't burn or evaporate
or something like that
um if you put it in a robot like you
said
and the robot let's say is immortal
then that won't work because
um the robot let's say you put the the
Bible or whatever
the robot will have a different
interpretation of of the Bible next year
from what it had this year
it's it's presumably uh I assume by
hypothesis that it's a thinking being
its opinion of what things mean will
change that that's what humans do that's
what any person does
if it's not a person if it's just
like the diamond then it will eventually
be ground up so on you know it it will
only it will only be preserved if it's
useful for something or or if somebody
has a theory that it ought to be
preserved
and in either case that's a property of
the information that it has in it which
makes that information into knowledge
but if it's if it's just information
um or if it's useless information I mean
um then it will eventually fade away
I suppose there's a there's an
exponentially small chance for any
particular piece of information of
useless information that it will
eventually survive I mean no doubt
somewhere on one of those beaches around
the world there's a configuration of
sand
that will still be exactly the same
after the tide has come in and gone out
again
thanks the answer
thanks for the question Sam I guess
let's take one uh uh final question from
ante and then bring the conversation
more to uh um how to describe our more
more comprehensible immediately
accessible World
um
yeah go ahead
thanks
um my question is in constructive theory
um
the universal Constructor is it
is there a meaningful distinction
between
let's say something like DNA that can
make a person and then it's
automatically a universal Constructor
or does
the effect have to be in some way more
immediate
um so I have to apologize to everybody
that that in my book the beginning of
infinity
I talk in a very loose way about the
universal Constructor
um which turns out to be
uh not very suited to constructive
theory
um in particular I spoke of uh human as
being a universal Constructor and that's
that's not quite right in an important
way namely that a universal Constructor
like a universal computer has to be
programmable
so it's Universal in the sense that for
everything that can be constructed there
exists a program that will make the
universal Constructor constructed
which means that it has to be perfectly
obedient
like like all Constructors it's an
idealization but but to say that
something's uh a good approximation to
Universal Constructor do you mean that
it's very very very obedient
but humans neither humans individually
nor human society as a whole is at all
obedient
so
um uh now you might say well it's it's
not the human that's a universal
Constructor it's just the human body and
forget about the brain you know you have
to program the brain instructs the rest
of the body but then the rest of the
body
um
is uh has a finite Lifetime and anyway
uh most constructions involve
um
cooperation between different people and
it involves machinery and later one day
when we have Universal Constructor robot
type things it will involve those and
then it doesn't really make uh make
sense to to consider the human body as a
universal Constructor when all it is is
an is um
front end for the real Universal
Constructor which will be a type of
robot
uh okay so having made that apology have
forgotten what your actual question was
um well the if DNA can build a human
then is it automatically uh Universal
constructed yes well so uh since a human
isn't a universal instructor the answer
is no so if there were a way
for DNA to not only build a human but to
install
in the human brain
a program for doing an arbitrary thing
and
for passing that on to its offspring
so that they would work for generations
and generations to build Rockets to go
to the moons of Mars and convert them
into busts of Napoleon
um unless there's a way for DNA to do
that then the answer is no
uh I don't think there can be a way of
doing that but but that that's another
issue I mean that that's not a
fundamental issue the the it could be
that
um DNA can do this without going via the
intermediary of a human
uh the DNA could build an animal robot
that builds other robots that builds
other robots and and so on and then the
DNA
installed in a certain cell because
something has to make the DNA
um work like with the ribosomes and so
on it could be the DNA can indeed make
anything when when installed in a
suitable cell
again I I don't think so but but uh it's
not impossible
um from from fundamental principles
thanks for the question
um I guess we can bring the conversation
towards more
um practical questions
um I if I'm if I may say like more more
accessible in our everyday world with
our hands which like as quantum
computers right now we have that are
being built that we can touch and uh
play with
um what is your opinion on current
progress on Quantum Technologies and the
industry in general
unfortunately I I haven't got my finger
on the pulse of current technology
uh my my view of current technology is
is just that of a Layman who who sees
things on Twitter from time to time
so uh I I'm I'm naturally skeptical
about claims to have achieved
universality
and I'm naturally gullible about things
to claims to have uh well even
universality in the sense of universal
quantum computer
and I'm naturally gullible when it comes
to claims about having achieved
something amazing
like like a a new functionality just
like in the case of uh Ai and AGI I'm
skeptical about claims to have made
progress towards AGI
and uh I'm I'm fully expecting amazing
brilliant uh progress in AI like every
day
okay
okay but is where was was there uh maybe
a technological development that you
were surprised to see positively
surprised to see in the last few years
or what are some scientific trends that
you you uh you were excited about you
are excited about right now
um
oh well that's that's a much wider
question or do you mean in regard to
Quantum technology
yes again I'm afraid I don't know uh
maybe maybe generally actually maybe not
even Maybe not immediately related but
related maybe so I I think there are so
the big picture is that I I think that
uh progress in fundamental progress in
physics has slowed down
um during the last few decades I needed
to slow down not because
we've reached all the low-hanging fruit
or for any reason like that there's a
sociological reason that that uh that
has stultified
the uh the uh scientific World in regard
to almost all fundamental issues
um
so most things haven't made progress
there has been a lot of progress in
cosmology
which again I don't know much about
um I think that the um inflationary
model
um
seems like a fairy story to me
and
if it turns out to be true it will be
amazing
and I I mean when I say it turns out to
be true I mean if the underlying
mechanisms are found to have some basis
in in
a new series of Elementary particles and
that kind of thing then that will be
amazing if it turns out to be false and
is superseded that will also turn out to
be amazing so that's a nice state
for a field of science to be in that
whether it succeeds or fails in its
current
uh hopes
um uh will that will either either way
it'll be amazing
um
uh
compute compute computer computer
technology aside from Quantum is of
course making huge progress and computer
software in the sense of machine
learning and AI is also making rapid
progress
uh I've probably forgotten the most uh
I'm not remembering the most important
thing and somebody will come to an
afternoon and say Hey you know you you
dissed our field but I don't mean to
diss any field but we've been talking
about virtual reality a lot as a
theoretical construct to explain the
fabric of reality in the in the book uh
yeah well that that technology is
improving but but it hasn't
um improved in any fundamental way for
many years it's just the resolution has
got better
um uh you know the programming has got
better
uh but there's nothing that that uh
would Amaze anybody
from the 1980s let's say
uh they'd be amazed at the actual
technology
and and like they'd say you know shut up
and let me try this out
uh rather than answer your questions but
but there's nothing fundamentally new
that they didn't think of whereas for
example if you go a bit further back and
look at what was
considered to be the most amazing
possible future
in the 1960s let's say with with Star
Trek
um there are a lot of things from that
that were actually achieved and there
are a lot of things from that that were
not achieved
and
there are a lot of things that were
achieved that were not thought of then
not even conceived of
um and
um
that kind of thing has slowed down
and
um I think it's because
of irrelevant I mean fundamentally
irrelevant things like the social
sociology of Science and the
the structure of Scientific careers and
the structure of universities and uh the
the public conception of the educational
system altogether you know thinking of
the educational system as a machine for
uh passing on knowledge
um is not very compatible with an open
Society
and uh opens science is and should be
the epitome of an open Society
but it's
[Music]
um
it's less so than it has been in the
past
I guess we'll take one final question
before we wrap up from Andrew
hey David uh I'll come in over here from
the US uh I am actually an analyst and
we invest in those cutting-edge
Technologies
um mipc firm and so I'm curious to learn
well with regard to trying to remove
abstraction layers from what is cutting
us signs and then commercializing that
um
so and I think you've already talked on
this a little bit but what um what would
be I don't know like an inflection point
in the science community that could
um how proliferate like these um
more Cutting Edge Frontier Technologies
um and because you said it's kind of
slowed down so what can kind of stop
that stagnation and well
um so one thing is is to do with a
combination of funding and organization
um
scientific research ought to be
organized
in the form of uh with the weather the
fundamental unit is the research group
so if the research group could be one
person in which case that person should
be free to do whatever that person wants
to do
or it could be a group in which case
that person that it should have a leader
who decides
who they want to work with
um but the organizational structure
should be flat
so that the the leader is the one that
talks to the funders but apart from that
everyone when they're when they're
actually in the lab or in front of the
Whiteboard everybody's equal
so that's one thing
um another thing this this may sound
like a very parochial issue but
I think they ought to leave leave
graduate students alone
that there's been a sort of mission
creep in universities where
um
uh it used to be like when I was a
graduate student
um uh it was taken for granted that that
you were an undergraduate and then
either you went in if you wanted to do
research you would you would go into
research and you would start on day one
being in some research group or working
on some problem of your own or whatever
it was or you would first have to do an
MSC and then start being a proper
graduate student
but now
um graduate students are
from the point of view of
the research itself
they are not
in a creative role they're in a
subordinate role
um
the and it's hard enough for people who
come out of say a school with its
regimented structure
to to do research to to build up on the
on-ramp of an undergraduate degree to to
actually do creative research but this
is has been made harder and harder by
um more and more
burdens being placed on graduate
students and then it doesn't stop with
graduate students post-docs now have to
spend a significant proportion of their
time meeting irrelevant requirements
from their departments from the funders
from the government whoever whoever's in
charge of them
so there's there's somebody who is
called a postdoctoral researcher
that is you know doctor means learned
their learned person they've they've
become a learned person they're supposed
to be doing research and creating new
knowledge
the the uh their job description says
that they're supposed to create new and
original knowledge and yet they have to
spend most of their time
meeting existing criteria
that's not creativity
so those those are those are a couple of
things no doubt there are many more
thank you
so as the final question then David what
would be your advice to those people
what would be your advice to to Future
potential discoveries of algorithms or
scientific theories in other words what
what would be your advice for Seekers of
the truth
yeah
well
um I don't give advice
because uh when you give advice what
happens next is then your fault
and uh I don't want anything to be my
fault
um so the uh
I I think the only like I could say
just be aware
that the
um
this the
hierarchy and the structure whose
ostensible purpose is
creating knowledge
um actually acts largely to prevent that
and the fact that this this doesn't
result in immediate collapse of society
is due to the fact that people
some people manage to find their way
through the Minefield through the
Labyrinth through through the Dark
Forest
and do the research anyway despite it
all the discouragement and the the the
compulsion to do irrelevant things
so you know is my if my advice is find
your way through the Minefield or find a
field that doesn't have minds or
something that is not going to be much
help
right all right
um
thank you David
um Applause I I don't know how we can do
it on Zoom but well it's been fun thank
you thank you so much David thanks for
everyone who who showed up
um
after maybe some edits we'll post this
on our website and our YouTube channel
by Quantum Information Society and I
I've seen that there were many questions
in the chat we had many questions that
were unanswered we couldn't take any
questions from the chat so we'll find a
way to maybe somehow record those and
make use of them in our future sessions
but thanks for everyone who showed up
um I guess I'm gonna stop the recording
now thanks David